Create a documentation (in /docs) about testing TEAL (#188)
scale-it/algorand-builder: docs/testing-teal.md

# Testing TEAL

> [TEAL](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/reference/teal/specification/) is a bytecode based stack language that executes inside Algorand transactions to check the parameters of the transaction and approve the transaction as if by a signature. `@algorand-builder/algorand-js` provides a simple workflow to execute TEAL code with high speed and throughput (as the transactions are not processed on the blockchain but in a test environment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TEAL](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/reference/teal/specification/) is a bytecode based stack language that executes inside Algorand transactions to check the parameters of the transaction and approve the transaction as if by a signature. `@algorand-builder/algorand-js` provides a lightweight runtime and TEAL interpreter to test Algorand Smart Contracts.
```

> **NOTE:** TEAL cannot modify or create transactions, only reject or approve them. Approval is signaled by finishing with the stack containing a single non-zero uint64 value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** TEAL can not modify nor create transactions, only reject or approve them. Approval is signaled by finishing with the stack containing a single non-zero uint64 value.
```

## How it works

`@algorand-builder/algorand-js` (JavaScript Algorand runtime) executes transactions and processes TEAL in 3 parts :-

> - [Runtime](../packages/algorand-js/src/runtime): For a transaction or txn group, the state management is handled by the `Runtime`. User can use `Runtime` class to set up accounts, create applications, opt-in to app, update app..etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Runtime](../packages/algorand-js/src/runtime): For a transaction or txn group, the state management is handled by the `Runtime`. User can use `Runtime` object to set up accounts, create applications, opt-in to app, update app, etc...
```

- [Parser](../packages/algorand-js/src/parser): Reads TEAL code and converts it to a list of opcodes which are executable by the interpreter. If any opcode/data in teal code is invalid, parser will throw an error.

> - [Interpreter](../packages/algorand-js/src/interpreter): Executes the list of opcodes returned by parser and updates stack after each execution. After the end of execution, if top of stack contains a non-zero uint64 value then the teal code is approved, and transaction can be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Interpreter](../packages/algorand-js/src/interpreter): Executes the list of opcodes returned by parser and updates stack after each execution. At the end of execution, if the stack contains a single non-zero uint64 element then the teal code is approved, and transaction can be executed.
```

> 

Reviewer: Please add also a documentation about `StoreAccountImpl`.

Reviewer: Note, we should rename StoreAccountImpl: https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/176449616

Author: ok

## Run tests

> In this section we will demonstrating executing transactions with stateless and stateful teal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we will demonstrate executing transactions with stateless and stateful teal.
```

### Stateless TEAL

> Let's try to execute a transaction where the user (say `john`) can withdraw funds from an `escrow` account based on a stateless smart contract logic. Teal code can be found [here](../packages/algorand-js/test/fixtures/escrow-account/assets/escrow.teal).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's try to execute a transaction where a user (say `john`) can withdraw funds from an `escrow` account based on a stateless smart contract logic. TEAL code can be found [here](../packages/algorand-js/test/fixtures/escrow-account/assets/escrow.teal).
```

- First let's set up the state: initialize accounts and set up runtime (snippet from mocha test is also provided below).
```
const escrow = new StoreAccountImpl(1000e6); // 1000 ALGO
const john = new StoreAccountImpl(500, johnAccount); // 0.005 ALGO
const runtime = new Runtime([escrow, john]); // setup runtime
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/104197847-81afe200-544b-11eb-8553-b2446ea9c763.png)

- Execute transaction (using `runtime.executeTx()`) with valid txnParams.

> ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/104199023-f33c6000-544c-11eb-975b-1f8f72508ee6.png)

Reviewer: Let's use code sections. It's easier to edit it in the future.

Author: ok

> In test, we are first checking the initial balance which we set during initialization. Then we are executing transaction by passing `txnParams, teal code (as string), external arguments to smart contract`. After execution, we are verifying the account balances if the funds are withrawn from `escrow`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In test, we are first checking the initial balance which we set during initialization. Then we are executing transaction by passing `txnParams, teal code (as a string), external arguments to smart contract`. After execution, we are verifying the account balances if the funds are withdrawn from `escrow`.
```

- Executing transaction with invalid txnParams results in failure.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/104201136-6cd54d80-544f-11eb-80ea-9ca307bc189d.png)

Full mocha test with more transactions can be found [here](../packages/algorand-js/test/integration/escrow-account.ts).

### Stateful TEAL

Now, we will execute a transaction with stateful TEAL (which increments a global and local "counter" by on each application call). Teal code can be found [here](../packages/algorand-js/test/fixtures/stateful/assets/counter-approval.teal)

> - Similar to above test, we need to setup accounts and initialize runtime. Now, for stateful txn, we also need to create a new application in user account and also do opt-in (to call the stateful smart contract later). User can use `runtime.addApp()` and `runtime.optInToApp()` for app setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Similar to the previous test, we need to setup accounts and initialize runtime. Now, for stateful smart contract, we also need to create a new application in user account and opt-in (to call the stateful smart contract later). User can use `runtime.addApp()` and `runtime.optInToApp()` for app setup.
```

> ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/104204711-94c6b000-5453-11eb-99e5-f772ce4b5c92.png)

Reviewer: ditto, let's use code snippet, not an image.

Author: understood, thanks for note

- After set up, let's call the stateful smart contract and check the updated global state
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/104205377-5382d000-5454-11eb-8b57-8a6690694c61.png)

> In this test, after executing the transaction (call stateful smart contract), we are verifying if the `global state` and `local state` is updated. User can use `runtime.getGlobalState()` and `account.getLocalState()` to check state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this test, after executing the transaction (stateful smart contract call), we are verifying if the `global state` and `local state` is updated. User can use `runtime.getGlobalState()` and `account.getLocalState()` to check state.
```
